Exercises/8-open-ai.md, before:




# Lab 08: Azure OpenAI service

## Microsoft Azure user interface

Given the dynamic nature of Microsoft cloud tools, you might experience Azure UI changes that occur after the development of this training content. As a result, the lab instructions and lab steps might not align correctly.

Microsoft updates this training course when the community alerts us to needed changes. However, cloud updates occur frequently, so you might encounter UI changes before this training content updates. **If this occurs, adapt to the changes, and then work through them in the labs as needed.**

## Instructions

### Before you start

#### Sign in to the lab environment

Sign in to your Azure portal using the credentials provided.

> **Note**: Your lab host will provide instructions to connect to the virtual lab environment.



## Lab Scenario

In this lab, you will create an Azure OpenAI service instance and use it to generate text from a .NET console application.

### Exercise 1: Create Azure resources

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1. On the taskbar, select the **Microsoft Edge** icon.
1. In the browser window, browse to the Azure portal at `https://portal.azure.com`, and then sign in with the account you'll be using for this lab.

    > **Note**: If this is your first time signing in to the Azure portal, you'll be offered a tour of the portal. If you prefer to skip the tour, select **Get Started** to begin using the portal.

#### Task 2: Prvision an Azure OpenAI service instance

If you don't already have one, provision an Azure OpenAI resource in your Azure subscription.

1. Sign into the **Azure portal** at `https://portal.azure.com`.
2. Create an **Azure OpenAI** resource with the following settings:
    - **Subscription**: *Select an Azure subscription that has been approved for access to the Azure OpenAI service*
    - **Resource group**: *Choose or create a resource group*
    - **Region**: *Make a **random** choice from any of the following regions*\*
        - Australia East
        - Canada East
        - East US
        - East US 2
        - France Central
        - Japan East
        - North Central US
        - Sweden Central
        - Switzerland North
        - UK South
    - **Name**: *A unique name of your choice*
    - **Pricing tier**: Standard S0

    > \* Azure OpenAI resources are constrained by regional quotas. The listed regions include default quota for the model type(s) used in this exercise. Randomly choosing a region reduces the risk of a single region reaching its quota limit in scenarios where you are sharing a subscription with other users. In the event of a quota limit being reached later in the exercise, there's a possibility you may need to create another resource in a different region.

3. Wait for deployment to complete. Then go to the deployed Azure OpenAI resource in the Azure portal.

### Exercise 2: Deploy a model

Azure provides a web-based portal named **Azure AI Studio**, that you can use to deploy, manage, and explore models. You'll start your exploration of Azure OpenAI by using Azure AI Studio to deploy a model.

> **Note**: As you use Azure AI Studio, message boxes suggesting tasks for you to perform may be displayed. You can close these and follow the steps in this exercise.

1. In the Azure portal, on the **Overview** page for your Azure OpenAI resource, scroll down to the **Get Started** section and select the button to go to **AI Studio**.
   
2. In Azure AI Studio, in the pane on the left, select the **Deployments** page and view your existing model deployments. If you don't already have one, create a new deployment of the **gpt-35-turbo-16k** model with the following settings:
    - **Deployment name**: *A unique name of your choice*
    - **Model**: gpt-35-turbo-16k *(if the 16k model isn't available, choose gpt-35-turbo)*
    - **Model version**: *Use default version*
    - **Deployment type**: Standard
    - **Tokens per minute rate limit**: 5K\*
    - **Content filter**: Default
    - **Enable dynamic quota**: Disabled

    > \* A rate limit of 5,000 tokens per minute is more than adequate to complete this exercise while leaving capacity for other people using the same subscription.


### Exercise 3: Use the chat playground

Now that you've deployed a model, you can use it to generate responses based on natural language prompts. The *Chat* playground in Azure AI Studio provides a chatbot interface for GPT 3.5 and higher models.

> **Note:** The *Chat* playground uses the *ChatCompletions* API rather than the older *Completions* API that is used by the *Completions* playground. The Completions playground is provided for compatibility with older models.

1. In the **Playground** section, select the **Chat** page. The **Chat** playground page consists of a row of buttons and two main panels (which may be arranged right-to-left horizontally, or top-to-bottom vertically depending on your screen resolution):
    - **Configuration** - used to select your deployment, define system message, and set parameters for interacting with your deployment.
    - **Chat session** - used to submit chat messages and view responses.
1. Under **Deployments**, ensure that your gpt-35-turbo-16k model deployment is selected.
1. Review the default **System message**, which should be *You are an AI assistant that helps people find information.* The system message is included in prompts submitted to the model, and provides context for the model's responses; setting expectations about how an AI agent based on the model should interact with the user.
1. In the **Chat session** panel, enter the user query 
   ```
   How can I use generative AI to help me market a new product?
   ```
    > **Note**: You may receive a response that the API deployment is not yet ready. If so, wait for a few minutes and try again.

2. Review the response, noting that the model has generated a cohesive natural language answer that is relevant to the query with which it was prompted.
3. Enter the user query 
    ```
    What skills do I need if I want to develop a solution to accomplish this?
    ```
4. Review the response, noting that the chat session has retained the conversational context (so "this" is interpreted as a generative AI solution for marketing). This contextualization is achieved by including the recent conversation history in each successive prompt submission, so the prompt sent to the model for the second query included the original query and response as well as the new user input.
5. In the **Chat session** panel toolbar, select **Clear chat** and confirm that you want to restart the chat session.
6. Enter the query 
    ```
    Can you help me find resources to learn those skills?
    ```
    and review the response, which should be a valid natural language answer, but since the previous chat history has been lost, the answer is likely to be about finding generic skilling resources rather than being related to the specific skills needed to build a generative AI marketing solution.

### Exercise 4: Use the OpenAI API in a .NET console application

#### Task 1: Prepare a .NET console application

1. In Visual Studio Code, in the **Explorer** pane, browse to the **Allfiles/Labs/08/CSharp** folder and expand the folder. 
2. Right-click the **CSharp** folder containing your code files and open an integrated terminal. Then install the Azure OpenAI SDK package by running the appropriate command for your language preference:

    **C#**:

    ```
    dotnet add package Azure.AI.OpenAI --version 1.0.0-beta.14
    ```


3. In the **Explorer** pane, in the **CSharp** folder, open the configuration file, **appsettings.json**.
    
4. Update the configuration values to include:
    - The  **endpoint** and a **key** from the Azure OpenAI resource you created (available on the **Keys and Endpoint** page for your Azure OpenAI resource in the Azure portal)
    - The **deployment name** you specified for your model deployment (available in the **Deployments** page in Azure AI studio).
5. Save the configuration file.

#### Task 2: Add code to use the Azure OpenAI service

1. In the **Explorer** pane, in the **CSharp** folder, open the code file, and replace the comment ***Add Azure OpenAI package*** with code to add the Azure OpenAI SDK library:

    **C#**: Program.cs

    ```csharp
    // Add Azure OpenAI package
    using Azure.AI.OpenAI;
    ```
    

2. In the application code for your language, replace the comment ***Initialize the Azure OpenAI client...*** with the following code to initialize the client and define our system message.

    **C#**: Program.cs

    ```csharp
    // Initialize the Azure OpenAI client
    OpenAIClient client = new OpenAIClient(new Uri(oaiEndpoint), new AzureKeyCredential(oaiKey));
    
    // System message to provide context to the model
    string systemMessage = "I am a hiking enthusiast named Forest who helps people discover hikes in their area. If no area is specified, I will default to near Rainier National Park. I will then provide three suggestions for nearby hikes that vary in length. I will also share an interesting fact about the local nature on the hikes when making a recommendation.";
    ```

3. Replace the comment ***Add code to send request...*** with the necessary code for building the request; specifying the various parameters for your model such as `messages` and `temperature`.

    **C#**: Program.cs

    ```csharp
    // Add code to send request...
    // Build completion options object
    ChatCompletionsOptions chatCompletionsOptions = new ChatCompletionsOptions()
    {
        Messages =
        {
            new ChatRequestSystemMessage(systemMessage),
            new ChatRequestUserMessage(inputText),
        },
        MaxTokens = 400,
        Temperature = 0.7f,
        DeploymentName = oaiDeploymentName
    };

    // Send request to Azure OpenAI model
    ChatCompletions response = client.GetChatCompletions(chatCompletionsOptions);

    // Print the response
    string completion = response.Choices[0].Message.Content;
    Console.WriteLine("Response: " + completion + "\n");
    ```

4. Save the changes to your code file.

## Test your application

Now that your app has been configured, run it to send your request to your model and observe the response.

1. In the interactive terminal pane, Then enter the following command to run the application.

   ```bash
   dotnet run
   ```

    > **Tip**: You can use the **Maximize panel size** (**^**) icon in the terminal toolbar to see more of the console text.

2. When prompted, enter the text 
    ```
    What hike should I do near Rainier?
    ```
3. Observe the output, taking note that the response follows the guidelines provided in the system message you added to the *messages* array.
4. Provide the prompt
    ```
    Where should I hike near Boise? I'm looking for something of easy difficulty, between 2 to 3 miles, with moderate elevation gain.
    ```
    and observe the output.


## Maintain conversation history

In most real-world applications, the ability to reference previous parts of the conversation allows for a more realistic interaction with an AI agent. The Azure OpenAI API is stateless by design, but by providing a history of the conversation in your prompt you enable the AI model to reference past messages.

1. Run the app again and provide the prompt:
   ```bash
   Where is a good hike near Boise?`.
   ```
2. Observe the output, and then prompt: 
    ```
    How difficult is the second hike you suggested?
    ```
3. The response from the model will likely indicate can't understand the hike you're referring to. To fix that, we can enable the model to have the past conversation messages for reference.
4. In your application, we need to add the previous prompt and response to the future prompt we are sending. Below the definition of the **system message**, add the following code.

    **C#**: Program.cs

    ```csharp
    // Initialize messages list
    var messagesList = new List<ChatRequestMessage>()
    {
        new ChatRequestSystemMessage(systemMessage),
    };
    ```

5. Under the comment ***Add code to send request...***, replace all the code from the comment to the end of the **while** loop with the following code then save the file. The code is mostly the same, but now using the messages array to store the conversation history.

    **C#**: Program.cs

    ```csharp
    // Add code to send request...
    // Build completion options object
    messagesList.Add(new ChatRequestUserMessage(inputText));

    ChatCompletionsOptions chatCompletionsOptions = new ChatCompletionsOptions()
    {
        MaxTokens = 1200,
        Temperature = 0.7f,
        DeploymentName = oaiDeploymentName
    };

    // Add messages to the completion options
    foreach (ChatRequestMessage chatMessage in messagesList)
    {
        chatCompletionsOptions.Messages.Add(chatMessage);
    }

    // Send request to Azure OpenAI model
    ChatCompletions response = client.GetChatCompletions(chatCompletionsOptions);

    // Return the response
    string completion = response.Choices[0].Message.Content;

    // Add generated text to messages list
    messagesList.Add(new ChatRequestAssistantMessage(completion));

    Console.WriteLine("Response: " + completion + "\n");
    ```

6. Save the file. In the code you added, notice we now append the previous input and response to the prompt array which allows the model to understand the history of our conversation.
7. In the terminal pane, enter the following command to run the application.

    ```bash
    dotnet run
    ```

8. Run the app again and provide the prompt: 
    ```
    Where is a good hike near Boise?
    ```
9.  Observe the output, and then prompt: 
    ```
    How difficult is the second hike you suggested?
    ```
10. You'll likely get a response about the second hike the model suggested, which provides a much more realistic conversation. You can ask additional follow up questions referencing previous answers, and each time the history provides context for the model to answer.

    > **Tip**: The token count is only set to 1200, so if the conversation continues too long the application will run out of available tokens, resulting in an incomplete prompt. In production uses, limiting the length of the history to the most recent inputs and responses will help control the number of required tokens.

#### Review

In this exercise, you deployed an Azure Redis Cache instance and interacted with it using the Redis Console and a .NET console application.

Commit message:

add step to delete resource group after ending the lab

Exercises/8-open-ai.md, after:




# Lab 08: Azure OpenAI service

## Microsoft Azure user interface

Given the dynamic nature of Microsoft cloud tools, you might experience Azure UI changes that occur after the development of this training content. As a result, the lab instructions and lab steps might not align correctly.

Microsoft updates this training course when the community alerts us to needed changes. However, cloud updates occur frequently, so you might encounter UI changes before this training content updates. **If this occurs, adapt to the changes, and then work through them in the labs as needed.**

## Instructions

### Before you start

#### Sign in to the lab environment

Sign in to your Azure portal using the credentials provided.

> **Note**: Your lab host will provide instructions to connect to the virtual lab environment.



## Lab Scenario

In this lab, you will create an Azure OpenAI service instance and use it to generate text from a .NET console application.

### Exercise 1: Create Azure resources

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1. On the taskbar, select the **Microsoft Edge** icon.
1. In the browser window, browse to the Azure portal at `https://portal.azure.com`, and then sign in with the account you'll be using for this lab.

    > **Note**: If this is your first time signing in to the Azure portal, you'll be offered a tour of the portal. If you prefer to skip the tour, select **Get Started** to begin using the portal.

#### Task 2: Prvision an Azure OpenAI service instance

If you don't already have one, provision an Azure OpenAI resource in your Azure subscription.

1. Sign into the **Azure portal** at `https://portal.azure.com`.
2. Create an **Azure OpenAI** resource with the following settings:
    - **Subscription**: *Select an Azure subscription that has been approved for access to the Azure OpenAI service*
    - **Resource group**: *Create a resource group*: **openai-**_[yourname]_
    - **Region**: *Make a **random** choice from any of the following regions*\*
        - Australia East
        - Canada East
        - East US
        - East US 2
        - France Central
        - Japan East
        - North Central US
        - Sweden Central
        - Switzerland North
        - UK South
    - **Name**: *A unique name of your choice*
    - **Pricing tier**: Standard S0

    > \* Azure OpenAI resources are constrained by regional quotas. The listed regions include default quota for the model type(s) used in this exercise. Randomly choosing a region reduces the risk of a single region reaching its quota limit in scenarios where you are sharing a subscription with other users. In the event of a quota limit being reached later in the exercise, there's a possibility you may need to create another resource in a different region.

3. Wait for deployment to complete. Then go to the deployed Azure OpenAI resource in the Azure portal.

### Exercise 2: Deploy a model

Azure provides a web-based portal named **Azure AI Studio**, that you can use to deploy, manage, and explore models. You'll start your exploration of Azure OpenAI by using Azure AI Studio to deploy a model.

> **Note**: As you use Azure AI Studio, message boxes suggesting tasks for you to perform may be displayed. You can close these and follow the steps in this exercise.

1. In the Azure portal, on the **Overview** page for your Azure OpenAI resource, scroll down to the **Get Started** section and select the button to go to **AI Studio**.
   
2. In Azure AI Studio, in the pane on the left, select the **Deployments** page and view your existing model deployments. If you don't already have one, create a new deployment of the **gpt-35-turbo-16k** model with the following settings:
    - **Deployment name**: *A unique name of your choice*
    - **Model**: gpt-35-turbo-16k *(if the 16k model isn't available, choose gpt-35-turbo)*
    - **Model version**: *Use default version*
    - **Deployment type**: Standard
    - **Tokens per minute rate limit**: 5K\*
    - **Content filter**: Default
    - **Enable dynamic quota**: Disabled

    > \* A rate limit of 5,000 tokens per minute is more than adequate to complete this exercise while leaving capacity for other people using the same subscription.


### Exercise 3: Use the chat playground

Now that you've deployed a model, you can use it to generate responses based on natural language prompts. The *Chat* playground in Azure AI Studio provides a chatbot interface for GPT 3.5 and higher models.

> **Note:** The *Chat* playground uses the *ChatCompletions* API rather than the older *Completions* API that is used by the *Completions* playground. The Completions playground is provided for compatibility with older models.

1. In the **Playground** section, select the **Chat** page. The **Chat** playground page consists of a row of buttons and two main panels (which may be arranged right-to-left horizontally, or top-to-bottom vertically depending on your screen resolution):
    - **Configuration** - used to select your deployment, define system message, and set parameters for interacting with your deployment.
    - **Chat session** - used to submit chat messages and view responses.
1. Under **Deployments**, ensure that your gpt-35-turbo-16k model deployment is selected.
1. Review the default **System message**, which should be *You are an AI assistant that helps people find information.* The system message is included in prompts submitted to the model, and provides context for the model's responses; setting expectations about how an AI agent based on the model should interact with the user.
1. In the **Chat session** panel, enter the user query 
   ```
   How can I use generative AI to help me market a new product?
   ```
    > **Note**: You may receive a response that the API deployment is not yet ready. If so, wait for a few minutes and try again.

2. Review the response, noting that the model has generated a cohesive natural language answer that is relevant to the query with which it was prompted.
3. Enter the user query 
    ```
    What skills do I need if I want to develop a solution to accomplish this?
    ```
4. Review the response, noting that the chat session has retained the conversational context (so "this" is interpreted as a generative AI solution for marketing). This contextualization is achieved by including the recent conversation history in each successive prompt submission, so the prompt sent to the model for the second query included the original query and response as well as the new user input.
5. In the **Chat session** panel toolbar, select **Clear chat** and confirm that you want to restart the chat session.
6. Enter the query 
    ```
    Can you help me find resources to learn those skills?
    ```
    and review the response, which should be a valid natural language answer, but since the previous chat history has been lost, the answer is likely to be about finding generic skilling resources rather than being related to the specific skills needed to build a generative AI marketing solution.

### Exercise 4: Use the OpenAI API in a .NET console application

#### Task 1: Prepare a .NET console application

1. In Visual Studio Code, in the **Explorer** pane, browse to the **Allfiles/Labs/08/CSharp** folder and expand the folder. 
2. Right-click the **CSharp** folder containing your code files and open an integrated terminal. Then install the Azure OpenAI SDK package by running the appropriate command for your language preference:

    **C#**:

    ```
    dotnet add package Azure.AI.OpenAI --version 1.0.0-beta.14
    ```


3. In the **Explorer** pane, in the **CSharp** folder, open the configuration file, **appsettings.json**.
    
4. Update the configuration values to include:
    - The  **endpoint** and a **key** from the Azure OpenAI resource you created (available on the **Keys and Endpoint** page for your Azure OpenAI resource in the Azure portal)
    - The **deployment name** you specified for your model deployment (available in the **Deployments** page in Azure AI studio).
5. Save the configuration file.

#### Task 2: Add code to use the Azure OpenAI service

1. In the **Explorer** pane, in the **CSharp** folder, open the code file, and replace the comment ***Add Azure OpenAI package*** with code to add the Azure OpenAI SDK library:

    **C#**: Program.cs

    ```csharp
    // Add Azure OpenAI package
    using Azure.AI.OpenAI;
    ```
    

2. In the application code for your language, replace the comment ***Initialize the Azure OpenAI client...*** with the following code to initialize the client and define our system message.

    **C#**: Program.cs

    ```csharp
    // Initialize the Azure OpenAI client
    OpenAIClient client = new OpenAIClient(new Uri(oaiEndpoint), new AzureKeyCredential(oaiKey));
    
    // System message to provide context to the model
    string systemMessage = "I am a hiking enthusiast named Forest who helps people discover hikes in their area. If no area is specified, I will default to near Rainier National Park. I will then provide three suggestions for nearby hikes that vary in length. I will also share an interesting fact about the local nature on the hikes when making a recommendation.";
    ```

3. Replace the comment ***Add code to send request...*** with the necessary code for building the request; specifying the various parameters for your model such as `messages` and `temperature`.

    **C#**: Program.cs

    ```csharp
    // Add code to send request...
    // Build completion options object
    ChatCompletionsOptions chatCompletionsOptions = new ChatCompletionsOptions()
    {
        Messages =
        {
            new ChatRequestSystemMessage(systemMessage),
            new ChatRequestUserMessage(inputText),
        },
        MaxTokens = 400,
        Temperature = 0.7f,
        DeploymentName = oaiDeploymentName
    };

    // Send request to Azure OpenAI model
    ChatCompletions response = client.GetChatCompletions(chatCompletionsOptions);

    // Print the response
    string completion = response.Choices[0].Message.Content;
    Console.WriteLine("Response: " + completion + "\n");
    ```

4. Save the changes to your code file.

## Test your application

Now that your app has been configured, run it to send your request to your model and observe the response.

1. In the interactive terminal pane, Then enter the following command to run the application.

   ```bash
   dotnet run
   ```

    > **Tip**: You can use the **Maximize panel size** (**^**) icon in the terminal toolbar to see more of the console text.

2. When prompted, enter the text 
    ```
    What hike should I do near Rainier?
    ```
3. Observe the output, taking note that the response follows the guidelines provided in the system message you added to the *messages* array.
4. Provide the prompt
    ```
    Where should I hike near Boise? I'm looking for something of easy difficulty, between 2 to 3 miles, with moderate elevation gain.
    ```
    and observe the output.


## Maintain conversation history

In most real-world applications, the ability to reference previous parts of the conversation allows for a more realistic interaction with an AI agent. The Azure OpenAI API is stateless by design, but by providing a history of the conversation in your prompt you enable the AI model to reference past messages.

1. Run the app again and provide the prompt:
   ```bash
   Where is a good hike near Boise?`.
   ```
2. Observe the output, and then prompt: 
    ```
    How difficult is the second hike you suggested?
    ```
3. The response from the model will likely indicate can't understand the hike you're referring to. To fix that, we can enable the model to have the past conversation messages for reference.
4. In your application, we need to add the previous prompt and response to the future prompt we are sending. Below the definition of the **system message**, add the following code.

    **C#**: Program.cs

    ```csharp
    // Initialize messages list
    var messagesList = new List<ChatRequestMessage>()
    {
        new ChatRequestSystemMessage(systemMessage),
    };
    ```

5. Under the comment ***Add code to send request...***, replace all the code from the comment to the end of the **while** loop with the following code then save the file. The code is mostly the same, but now using the messages array to store the conversation history.

    **C#**: Program.cs

    ```csharp
    // Add code to send request...
    // Build completion options object
    messagesList.Add(new ChatRequestUserMessage(inputText));

    ChatCompletionsOptions chatCompletionsOptions = new ChatCompletionsOptions()
    {
        MaxTokens = 1200,
        Temperature = 0.7f,
        DeploymentName = oaiDeploymentName
    };

    // Add messages to the completion options
    foreach (ChatRequestMessage chatMessage in messagesList)
    {
        chatCompletionsOptions.Messages.Add(chatMessage);
    }

    // Send request to Azure OpenAI model
    ChatCompletions response = client.GetChatCompletions(chatCompletionsOptions);

    // Return the response
    string completion = response.Choices[0].Message.Content;

    // Add generated text to messages list
    messagesList.Add(new ChatRequestAssistantMessage(completion));

    Console.WriteLine("Response: " + completion + "\n");
    ```

6. Save the file. In the code you added, notice we now append the previous input and response to the prompt array which allows the model to understand the history of our conversation.
7. In the terminal pane, enter the following command to run the application.

    ```bash
    dotnet run
    ```

8. Run the app again and provide the prompt: 
    ```
    Where is a good hike near Boise?
    ```
9.  Observe the output, and then prompt: 
    ```
    How difficult is the second hike you suggested?
    ```
10. You'll likely get a response about the second hike the model suggested, which provides a much more realistic conversation. You can ask additional follow up questions referencing previous answers, and each time the history provides context for the model to answer.

    > **Tip**: The token count is only set to 1200, so if the conversation continues too long the application will run out of available tokens, resulting in an incomplete prompt. In production uses, limiting the length of the history to the most recent inputs and responses will help control the number of required tokens.

### Remove the resources group

1. In the Azure portal, use the **Search resources, services, and docs** text box to search for **Resource groups**, and then in the list of results, select **openai-**_[yourname]_.
2. On the **openai-**_[yourname]_ blade, select **Delete resource group**.
3. In the **Delete resource group** blade, enter the name of the resource group to confirm that you want to delete the resource group, and then select **Delete**.



## Review

In this exercise, you deployed an Azure Redis Cache instance and interacted with it using the Redis Console and a .NET console application.
